Hello everyone and welcome to the implementation of a graph as an adjacency list lecture.
In this lecture we're going to go over Python programming and how to use it to implement a graph as
an adjacency lists in order to do this.
You can go ahead and check out the notebook that's underneath the graph folder in the repository and
we're going to be implementing two classes of vertex class and then we'll use that to build out the
full graph class before we begin building.
Just go over a few things or we're going to do is as I mentioned create that graph which holds that
master list of vertices and then the vertex class which will represent each vertex in the graph.
Each vertex is going to use a dictionary to keep track of the vertices twitch it's connected to and
the weight of each edge that dictionary is going to be called connected to.
So if you go ahead and scroll down to the code you can see here we have a self duck connected to empty
dictionary object.
Then what the constructor is simply going to do is initialize the ID which is typically going to be
a string and the connected to dictionary the ADD neighbor method is used to add a connection from the
vertex to another.
We have a get connection's method which returns all the vertices and the adjacency list as represented
by the connected to instance variable that dictionary we created then the weight method just returns
the weight of the edge from the vertex of the vertex pass as a parameter.
So with that being say let's go ahead and build out this vertex and explain what we're doing along the
way.
It's actually a pretty simple class.
And then after that we'll go ahead and go over the details of the graph class.
Let's go ahead and jump to a fresh Jupiter notebook and get started.
So I'm going to zoom in a bit here so it's a little easier to see first thing than do say class let's
just call this vertex
and I'm going to go ahead and say it is
Passons self and key.
And so the idea of the vertex is going to be that key though we pass and then as I mentioned before
we're going to have a dictionary called connected to and all this realized that it's an empty dictionary
so right us that we create the vertex object.
We have a key and an empty dictionary connected to.
Now we want a method to add neighbors.
So I will say the ADD neighbor that's going to take himself of course and then it's going to take a
variable NDR for that neighbor and then a weight which will initialises zero.
So if you forget to put in a weight has a weight of 0 and then will say self-fertile connected to that
neighbor we create that key and then say it's equal to weights.
So it is connected to dictionaries doing is it's taking in the neighbor as the key will be a string
and then the weight as the value for that key.
Then all we're gonna do is say the F let's say gets connection's
self and then we're going to return self-taught connected to overturn all the keys that dictionary.
So that we can just grab all the connections for that neighbor for that connected to dictionary I should
say then we'll create one more cup more methods will say Get Id taken self and that's just going to
return self-study.
One more method called Get away.
They'll take in self and a neighbor and they will go ahead and return that way.
So remember that way is just the value at that key.
So we can essentially just copy that and say return self-deceit connected to a neighbor.
Now we're going to add a special method.
So this one is going to be that string method.
So this is what happens when Python needs a string representation.
So it's basically going to be what happens when you say print that vertex object.
Python is going to look for that string representation there and then you say return a string of self-treat
the class will say connected to and then we'll say plus And then what I'm going to do is use list comprehension
in order to get a list of everything.
So I'll say Exidy for X and self-taught connected to.
Let's go ahead and zoom out a bit so you can see that whole code.
So what I'm saying here is just grab every Friday for X and that self-talk connected to the dictionary
.
All right.
So that should be it forever.
Next class will check up on it later.
Make sure it works.
Back when we implement the anti-graft class.
OK.
So up next is the graph class so in order to implement the graph is an adjacency list.
We're going to have the following methods.
We're going have just the graph which creates a new empty graph that's going to be this right here will
have at Vertex which adds an instance of vertex.
The graph will have an edge which as you directed edge to the graph that connects to vertices and then
we'll also let that same method taken a weight arguments if we want to.
And that's going to add a new way to direct that edge.
The graph then we'll have a vertex and get vertices.
This one just gets that particular vertex for that key and get vertices returns a list of all the vertices
in the graph and in return TRUE first statement the form vertex and graph.
If the given vertex is in the graph falsify Otherwise we'll explain that one a little more when we actually
get to it.
But let's go ahead and implement this graph class and take advantage of that vertex class we just created
.
So first timer and do say class
graph we're going to say initialize it just taken self going to say self Virts list.
So list that vertices.
It's actually going to be an empty dictionary not an empty list all show why later.
And they'll say self-fertile whoops numb courtesies is equal to zero and they'll basically be a verdict's
a vertex tracker counter.
Next up we're going to do is say make a method for adding a vertex to this graph.
And so that's going to take itself.
Remember the vertex takes in keys.
So we're going to do is go ahead and add a key to that
will say self-taught now vertices is equal to self-taught vertices plus 1
and you could also just say here plus one.
Up to you.
We'll go ahead and go with the shorter message is a little cleaner basically means.
So I added a vertex.
I need to add a number the number of vertices I have graph and now it's actually do that.
So let's that vertex going to create basically a temporary object here called new vertex set equal to
an instance of the vertex class with that key that's been given and I'll say self dot vert list at that
key is new vertex and just keep in mind the reason I'm calling this list is because we're modeling this
as an adjacency list not because the sexual object.
List keep in mind that Burtt list is a dictionary.
But the reason it's called list is because we're modeling this after an adjacency list.
All right.
Then lastly I was going to say return new vertex.
All right so that's how we out of her attacks.
We add a number to our counter vs. set new vertex obsoletes to vertex key say self-taught Burtt list
at that key is equal to that new vertex object.
And then just return the new vertex.
Next I want to get a method for or create a method for getting vertices so I'm going to say protects
.
Going to say self an end and it's going to say if an in self the verb list and keep in mind that if
I say in a dictionary it's going to say in the dictionary key.
So I'm just going to show you an example of that real quick by creative dictionary.
And I say K-1 with the value one in if I ask one.
Or let's say if K-1 in that dictionary current
in dictionary but notice if I say this I don't get anything out because it's not in there.
So when you essentially want to try to say is it when you iterate through a dictionary without specifying
dot it or items or it or keys or values or items etc. it's going to automatically default to the Keys
.
And this is for both Python to in Python 3.
So when you iterate through a dictionary by default you don't say a specific method.
It's going to iterate through those keys.
So why is that important.
Because that's basically what we're doing here we're saying if an is in the keys of that list because
that Burtless has those keys which are the vertices and that in that graph.
OK so if it's in there I'm going to return self or list of an else I'm just going to return.
So that wasn't in there.
Next up I want to say add edge if I want to add an edge I'll say DPF add edge.
Go ahead and take a space there an edge.
And this is where it's going to say self
F C cost is zero.
So as a reminder what do these actually stand for.
This is going to be from Burt Tietz or Virtex I should say.
This is t for two Virtex and then cost is that weight.
So continuing all of this I'm going to say if the F which is the from Virtex is not in self-taught list
I mean we're going to say nv equals make a variable called n v equal to self dot at Vertex
and then if the two vertex isn't in there I must say not in self-taught or just
say and B is equal to self at Vertex at two vertex and then finally and just going to say self that
Virt list f to the ADD neighbor method
and let's make sure we spell that correctly at neighbor if we scroll back up to Herberts vertex class
we have the neighbor.
So we need to take neighbor in the way.
So I need to say the neighbors are going to be self-taught.
List that to Virtex and then that way it's just a car.
So remember here is that from Virtex and see here is that two Virtex.
So here we're checking if they're actually in our vert list.
So if or not that means kind of like adding a new vertex the graph in order to add that edge.
All right.
So we're not returning this we're just setting this inside the actual object.
Want to make another method called get C's self and say return self list and just go ahead and return
the keys.
So if I didn't specify keys I would have accidently overturned the whole dictionary.
Now we're going to go ahead and say some special methods here.
One is the entire method so it happens and actually iterate through this graph object by say for Blenkin
graph this case what I want to do is return later of self list stop values.
And so what that's essentially doing is saying OK grab all the values in that Burtless dictionary and
then make it into an iterable object.
So that basically means when I say for some for object or item in graph and actually iterate through
it I'm going to be iterating through the values in that Vergilius dictionary.
And you can check out some more special methods we're going to add to more called contains
and I'll say self an and here will just return an in self a verb list and that allows us to use that
and in OPERATOR OK so.
So I ran that.
Let's go ahead and actually check if it ran and make sure we don't have any errors here.
It's quite a bit of code might have an error somewhere but let's go ahead and see if it works.
I'm going to say G is an instance of a graph object.
So far so good.
And then I'm going to say let's say for zoom in here X I assume though what it say for I in range 6
will st g dot at a vertex of II.
So basically just keep adding those numbers.
Ok that works.
So let's go ahead and call the vertex list from it.
Right.
So we actually have zero through five vertices so let's go ahead and make sure we can add an edge here
.
So this is essentially that Vizcarra V1 V2 et cetera.
You remember back from the presentations in earlier lectures.
Let's go ahead and try adding an edge.
So I'll say go from vertex zero so that from vertex to which is that t the one vertex and give it a
weight of 2.
So what is actually doing.
We go back and check here.
I'm saying add edge.
I'm saying from vertex and my two vertex and that weights that I can check from and two are in there
.
If not I add those vertex and then I say solve for list add a neighbor to it go ahead and check it out
make sure it works like it did.
So I say no.
So if for vertex in G.
And what does that actually mean for vertex and G that actually allows me to take advantage of the special
methods I created.
And I'm going to print Virtex and will say print vertex dot get connections
and then I'll print a new line after that.
So see if this works right.
Looks like it did.
So what does this actually doing.
It's going to print the vertex and then print all the connections of that vertex and then prints into
line.
So remember of six vertices in this adjacency lists graph zero through five and there should only be
one connection because I only added one edge and it's actually here it says zero is connected to 1 which
is exactly what I had here.
So it all worked out.
I encourage you to play around with this methods or with these methods I should say build out your graph
a little bigger but really just understand what's actually happening here in relation to that figure
of the adjacency list.
That's really all there is to it.
So just to review what we did we created a class Virtex we have ADD neighbors get connections in a bunch
of other get weights get IDs.
But really the key here is just set it as a dictionary key and say it's connected to weight.
If we need it.
So we have that connected to a dictionary and we can add neighbors to it with weights.
So that's the vertex class.
And then for the graph class takes advantage of the vertex class we just made.
So it can add vertices to it with a number of vertices tracker and we can use a list again just to really
say this is a dictionary.
And the reason it's called the list is because it's an adjacency list form.
But what we're actually dealing in effect we're working with it as a Python dictionary just makes it
a lot easier to create this class.
Now we can add edges and everything else is essentially just special tools or methods to work with that
graph class as far as getting objects from it or iterating through it or checking if it's in something
in that class.
OK that's it.
I encourage you to check this out.
Again there's a bunch of notes in case you want to check out all the explanations and the Perrineau
book.
All right.
That's it for the implementation of a graph is an adjacency list.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture